Description of project lifecyle change requests and templates (#106)
ossf/tac: process/project-lifecycle.md

* The proposal must remain open for at least 2 weeks of discussion after the maintainers are informed.
* A vote must be finalized with 2/3 approval from the TAC or parent WG.

## Submission Process

### Project creation or change of lifecycle stage

> For initiating the creation of a new project or for requesting a change of a project's lifecycle stage, an application must be submitted to the TAC. To this end, a maintainer of the project (or another interested party if no maintainer is available) creates a PR in this repository with the following changes:

Reviewer: "(or another interested party if no maintainer is available)"
Was this to accommodate Archived? If so, should we specify so it's not misinterpreted as non-maintainers could push a project from Incubation to Graduation without the maintainers' involvement?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it is. Typically when a project is being archived there is no longer any maintainer around to do any such work so I thought we should provide for the possibility of having someone else. One possibility is to make this a community architect/LF staff member if you're concerned that this might be misused (although I can't imagine this being practically possible if the project is actively maintained).

Author: Yes, @annabellegoth2boss, that was the intention and I can change the text to be more explicit. Another alternative used in LF projec is that a member of the TAC opens the PR to archive a project if no maintainer can be found to do this on behave of  the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For initiating the creation of a new project or for requesting a change of a project's lifecycle stage, an application must be submitted to the TAC. To this end, a maintainer of the project (or any OpenSSF member in the case of Archived projects) creates a PR in this repository with the following changes:
```

> * A new file in the `project-lifecyle-documents` directory containing all information requested for a project creation or a lifecycle change review. This file must be based on the template for the respective lifecycle stage in the `templates` directory. The `PROJECT_NAME_` prefix of the template must be replaced by the project name.

Reviewer 2: Is "the issue format" really different? Why can't the discussion happen in comment to the PR, just like on the issue?
The proposed workflow aims at minimizing the number of steps involved. Once the PR is approved it is merged and we're done. Otherwise we will need to get both the issue closed and then the PR submitted, approved, and merged as a second step.

> * A new file in the `project-lifecyle-documents` directory containing all information requested for a project creation or a lifecycle change review. This file must be based on the template for the respective lifecycle stage in the `templates` directory. The `PROJECT_NAME_` prefix of the template must be replaced by the project name.

Reviewer: Discussion can certainly happen in a PR. 

I'm thinking of #101 where there's been robust discussion, and having that linear Issue format is helpful for readability. I'd prefer to design for accessible and digestible communication over time-to-approval on this one. 

cc @AevaOnline who might have thoughts from the CCC process as well.

> * A new file in the `project-lifecyle-documents` directory containing all information requested for a project creation or a lifecycle change review. This file must be based on the template for the respective lifecycle stage in the `templates` directory. The `PROJECT_NAME_` prefix of the template must be replaced by the project name.

Reviewer 2: But if you comment at the bottom of a PR it is similarly linear, isn't it?

> * A new file in the `project-lifecyle-documents` directory containing all information requested for a project creation or a lifecycle change review. This file must be based on the template for the respective lifecycle stage in the `templates` directory. The `PROJECT_NAME_` prefix of the template must be replaced by the project name.

Reviewer 3: So it depends on the lifecycle stage (within the CNCF).

For brand new projects applying to sandbox, its a form they fill out and we review.  This could be reasonably managed as an Issue template. But not all projects need to go through Sandbox, some can apply directly to incubation.

For Applying to Incubation, or changing from one stage to another (sandbox to incubation, incubation to graduation) its a PR. We keep [a template in the repo](https://github.com/cncf/toc/blob/main/process/graduation-proposal-template.md) that projects copy into their PR.  Discussion can occur on the PR in the particular content areas, but it still provides consistency in content. When accepted, they are merged in. Such as with [Linkerd](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/616), or [knative](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/762/files).

My recommendation: 
To be consistent in the processes and experience of projects, I would establish a template for each pursued stage and ask projects to copy the content into their PR to serve as the template. So one template for Sandbox, one for incubating, and one for graduation. The template should be clear in the information expected and its content sections should solicit meaningful information from the project that can drive an informed decision on whether they can move to the stage requested, or provide enough information to show why they cannot yet move. The deciding body should be able to clearly point to information in the PR, as well as other supporting materials, to justify their decision and provide recommendations actions back to the project based on that decision with a path forward.

Discussions then occur in the PR. The only outstanding process-oriented gotcha then would be the assignment of a sponsor to it. This should be mitigated by having the assigned or volunteered sponsor suggest a change to the PR for their handle in the otherwise empty "sponsor" section, and having the maintainer commit the suggestion.

> * A new file in the `project-lifecyle-documents` directory containing all information requested for a project creation or a lifecycle change review. This file must be based on the template for the respective lifecycle stage in the `templates` directory. The `PROJECT_NAME_` prefix of the template must be replaced by the project name.

Author: Thanks for the feedback, @TheFoxAtWork

* Modification of the table listing all projects in the [README](../README.md) of this repository by either updating the status field of the project in the table to the intended new lifecycle stage or by adding the project to the table in case of a project creation request.

The TAC members review the PR and upon approval according to voting criteria defined in the [OpenSSF charter](https://cdn.platform.linuxfoundation.org/agreements/openssf.pdf), the PR can be merged. Only after merging of the PR, the new project has been created and the new lifecycle stage is in effect.

### IP policy and license review

> Contributing an existing project to the OpenSSF requires a one-time IP policy and license review. To enable tracking of the IP policy and license review process, an issue in the TAC repo should be created. The results of the review as well as all relevant data (e.g., results of license scans) must be attached to this issue. Finally, the issue must be mentioned in the project creation PR and the latter can only be merged once the issue tracking the IP policy and license review has been closed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contributing an existing project to the OpenSSF requires a one-time IP policy and license review with The Linux Foundation. To enable tracking of the IP policy and license review process, an issue in the TAC repo should be created. The results of the review as well as all relevant data (e.g., results of license scans) must be attached to this issue. Finally, the issue must be mentioned in the project creation PR and the latter can only be merged once the issue tracking the IP policy and license review has been closed.
```
